satam sermm or sr. suousrmr. 275

(laur. XL—The Britons lose their kinydmr.

Fon a long time atter this the Britons were dispossessed
of the crown of the kingdom, and the monarchy of the
island, and made no endeavours to recover their ancient
dignity; but even that part ol the country which yet
remained to them, being subject not to one king, but three
tyrants, was often wasted by civil wars. But neither did
the Saxone yet obtain the crown, but were also subject to
three kings, who harassed sometimes one another, sometimes
the Britons.

Char. XIIeAaqustine, heim sent by pope oreym into Britain, 1

preaohea the μωροὶ to the duplet.

Iu the meantime Augustine was sent by pope Saint Gregory
into Britain, to preaeh the word of God to the Angles, who,
being blinded with pagan superstition, had entirely extin-
guished Christianity in that port of the island which they
possessed. But among the Britons, the Christian saith still
flourished, and never failed among thern from the time of
pope Eleutherius, when it was first planted here. But when
Augustino came, he found in their province seven bishoprics
and an archbishopric, all filled with most devout prelates, and
a great number of abbeys3 by which the fiock of Christ was
still kept in. good order. Among the rest, there was in the
city of Bangor a most noble ohurch, in which it is reported
there was so great a number of monks, that when the
monastery was divided into seven parts, having each their
priors over them, not one of them had less than three
hundred monks‚ who all lived by the labour of their own
hands. The name of their abbat was Dinooth, a man
admirably skilled in the hbernl arts 3 who, when Augustino
required the subjection of the British bishops, and would
have persuaded them to undertake the work of the gospel
with him among the Angles, answered him with several
arguments, that they owed no subjection to him, neither
would they preaoh to their enemies3 since they had their
own archbishop, and because the Saxon nation persisted in
depriving them of their country. For this reason they
esteemed them their mortal epemies, reokoned their futh

 

