224 ororraar’a 666166 marcar. [m 66666

16616 her the subject 61 all his thoughts. She was the only
lady that he continually served with fresh dishes, and to
whom he sent golden cups by his confidants3 ou her he
bestowed all his smiles, 661 16 her addressed 611 his 116·
course. The husband, discovering this, fell into a great
roge, and retired from the court without taking leave: nor
666 there any body that could stop him, while he was under
fear 61 losiug the chief object 61 his delight. Uther, there·-
fore, 16 great wrath commanded him to return back to court,
16 make him satisfactiou for this affront. But Gorlois
refused 16 obey ; upon which the king was highly incensed,
and swore he would destroy his country, if he did not
specdily compouud for his offence. Accordingly, without
delay, while their auger was hot against each other, the king
got togethera great army, and marched into (lornwall, the
citios aud towns whereof he 661 66 1166. Β61 Gorlois durat
not engage with him 66 account 61 the inferiority 61 his
numbers ; and thought it a wiser course to fortify his towns,
till he could get succour from [reland. Andes he was under
more concern for his wife than himself, he put her into the
16666111616661,1 upon the sea-shore, which he looked
upon 66 6 place 61 great safety. But he himself entered the
666116 61 Dimilioc, 16 prevent their being both at once in·
volved in the same danger, if any should huppen. The king,
informed 61 this, went 16 the town where Gorlois was, which
he besieged, 661 shut up all the avenues 16 11 Α whole
week was now past, when, retaining in mind his love to
Igerna, he said 16 666 61 his 6661116616, named Ulfin de
Ricaradoch: “My passion for lgerna is auch, that I can
neither have 6666 61 mind, nor health 61 body, till 1 obtain
her: and if you cannot assist me with your advice how to
accomplish my desire, the inward tormenta I endure will kill
me.”-“Wh0 666 advisa you 16 this matter,” said Ulfin,
“ when no force will enable 66 16 have access to her in the
town 61 Tintagel? For it is 61166161 upon the 666, 661 66
every 6116 surrounded by it3 and there is but one entrance
into it, and that through 6 straight rock, which three meu
shall bc able to defend against the whole power 61 the king·
dom. Notwithstanding, 11 the prophet Merlin would in

w ruina 61 this castle deuote that it must have been 6 place 61 grear

 

