tot saorranrn sarman marom. :mm

him, that he thought nothing done till that was flrst avenged.
Iu pursuance therefore of this design, he marched with his
army into Cambria, to the town of Genoreu, whither Vorti-
gem had fied for refuge. That town was in the country ol
Hergiu, upon the river Gauia, in the mountain called
Cloarius. As soon as Ambrosius was arrived there, bearing
ln his mind the murder of his father and brother, he spako ,
thus to Eldol, duke of Gloucester.

‘⁴ See, most noble duke‚ whether the walls of this city are
able to protect Vortigern against my sheathing this sword in
his bowels. He deserves to die, aud you cannot, 1 suppose,
be ignorant of his desert. Oh most villainous of men, whose
crimes desarve inexpressible tortores l First he betrayed my
father Constantine, who had delivered him aud his country
from the inroads of the Picts3 afterwards my brother Con·
stans whom he made king on purpose to destroy him. Again,
when by his craft he had usurped thc crown‚ he introduced
pagens among the natives, in order to abuse those who con·

, tinued stedfast in their loyalty to me z but by the good pro·

vidence of God, he unwarily fell into the snare, which he
had laid for my faithful subjecta. For the Saxons, when
they found him out iu his wickedness, drove him from the
kingdom for which nobody ought to be concerued. But

’ this I think matter of just grief, that this odious people,

whom that detestable traitor invited over, has expelled the
nobility, laid waste a fruitful country, destroyed the holy
churches, and almost extinguished Christianity over the
whole kingdom. Now, therefore, my countrymeu, show
yourselves men 3 first revenge yourselves upon him that was
the occasion of all these disasters3 then let us turn our

' arms against our enemies, and free our country from their ·

brutish tyranur.” ,
immediately, therefore, they set their engines to worn,

and laboured to beat down the walls. But at last, when all

other attempta failed, they had reoourse to fire, which meet·

'ing with proper fuel ceased not to ruge, till it bad hur-ned

down the tower and Vortigerr iu it.

 

